# Beast Tamer

## Requirements

To qualify to become a beast tamer, a character must fulfill all the following criteria.
*   **Base Attack Bonus**: +2
*   **Skills**: Handle Animal 6 ranks, Survival 6 ranks, Treat Injury 6
*   **Feats**: Moujuu Aishou

## Class Information

The following information pertains to the Beast Tamer prestige class.

*   **Hit Die**: d8
*   **Action Points**: 6 + ½ character level, rounded down.
*   **Class Skills**: Balance (Dex), Climb (Str), Handle Animal (Cha), Hide (Dex), Intimidate (Cha), Jump (Str), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Profession (Wis), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis), Swim (Str), Taijutsu (Str), Treat Injury (Wis), Tumble (Dex).
*   **Skill Points at Each Level**: 5 + Int modifier.

## Table: The Beast Tamer

| Level | Base Attack Bonus | Fort Save | Ref Save | Will Save | Special | Defense Bonus | Reputation Bonus |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :--- | :---: | :---: |
| 1st | +0 | +1 | +1 | +1 | Talent | +1 | +1 |
| 2nd | +1 | +2 | +2 | +2 | Feral Power | +1 | +1 |
| 3rd | +2 | +2 | +2 | +2 | Talent | +2 | +1 |
| 4th | +3 | +2 | +2 | +2 | Feral Power | +2 | +2 |
| 5th | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 | Talent | +3 | +2 |
| 6th | +4 | +3 | +3 | +3 | Feral Power | +3 | +2 |
| 7th | +5 | +4 | +4 | +4 | Talent | +4 | +3 |
| 8th | +6 | +4 | +4 | +4 | Feral Power | +4 | +3 |
| 9th | +6 | +4 | +4 | +4 | Talent | +5 | +3 |
| 10th | +7 | +5 | +5 | +5 | Feral Power | +5 | +4 |

## Class Features

The following features pertain to the Beast Tamer prestige class.

### Animal Mastery Talent Tree

Choose one of the following Talents. A Talent cannot be chosen twice unless specified. Animal Coordination: You may spend a full round action to give your animal companion(s) +2 to attack rolls, only useable once per encounter, the effect lasts the whole encounter. Speak with Animals: The Beast Tamer is able to communicate verbally with any animal of the same type as his companion, as though affected by the speak with animals spell constantly. This ability only works when his animal companion is within 30 feet. Speak (Speak with Animals): Your animal companions have developed the ability to speak your native language. Best Friends (Requires Animal Coordination): Once per round, if the Beast Tamer is adjacent to an ally who is targeted by a direct melee or ranged attack (but not an area effect), he can subject himself to the attack in the ally’s stead. If the attack hits the Beast Tamer, he takes damage normally. If it misses, it also misses the ally. The Beast Tamer must declare his intention to place himself in harm’s way before the attack roll is made. He selects his animal companion either prior to combat or immediately after the shinobi makes his initiative check. The animal companion cannot be changed for the duration of the combat. His animal companion(s) may also use this ability under the same restrictions.

### Animal Talent Tree

Choose one of the following Talents. A Talent cannot be chosen twice unless specified. Animal Tricks: The Beast Tamer’s animal companion(s) are far stronger than most, he is treated as being 2 levels higher. Special: This talent may be taken multiple times, its effects stack. Fearless Companion: Your animal(s) gains +5 morale bonus to will saves against fear. Indomitable Companion: The animal may remove the condition fatigued, exhausted or stunned (by poison or technique) with a successful will saving throw DC 15. Only usable once per encounter.

### Ferocity Talent Tree

Choose one of the following Talents. A Talent cannot be chosen twice unless specified. Frenzy: You may spend one action point to go into Frenzy. The Beastmaster can enter a Frenzy during combat. While frenzied, he gains a +4 bonus to his Strength and, if he makes a full-attack action, gains a single extra attack each round at his highest attack bonus. This effect is not cumulative with other effects that grant extra attacks. However, he also takes a -4 penalty to Defense and takes 2 points of damage per round (or 2 points of nonlethal damage under the cumulative non-lethal damage rules). A Frenzy lasts for a number of rounds equal to 4 + the Beast Tamer's Constitution modifier. To end the Frenzy before its duration expires, the character may attempt a Will save (DC 20) once per round as a free action. Success ends the Frenzy immediately; failure means it continues. The effects of Frenzy stack with those from any rage ability the character may have. At 1st level, the character can enter Frenzy once per day. Every 4 levels afterwards (5th, 9th levels), he gains an additional use per day of this ability. Regardless of the level of the Beastmaster, he may not use this ability more than once per encounter. The character can enter Frenzy as a free action anytime during his turn. In addition, whenever the character takes enough damage to equal to one quarter of his total hit points, he enters a Frenzy at the start of his next action, as long as he has any daily use of the ability left. In order to avoid doing so, he must succeed a Will save (DC 20) at the start of his next turn. He must make another save every further quarter of his hit points he loses. While frenzied, the character cannot use any Charisma-, Dexterity-, or Intelligence-based skills (except Intimidate), the Concentration skill or any abilities that require patience or concentration, nor can he perform Chakra Control, Genjutsu or Ninjutsu techniques, and can only perform Taijutsu that do not require the Concentration component. During Frenzy, the Beastmaster must attack those he perceives as foes to the best of his ability. Should he run out of enemies before his Frenzy expires, his rampage continues. He must then attack the nearest creature (determine randomly if several potential foes are equidistant) and fight that opponent without regard to friendship or health (the target's or his own). In this case, the DC to cancel the Frenzy is equal a DC 20 – Beast Tamer’s class levels. When a Frenzy ends, the Beast Tamer is fatigued for the duration of the encounter. If the character is still under the effect of a rage ability, the fatigued condition does not apply until the rage ends—at which point the character is exhausted, not merely fatigued. Inspire Frenzy (Frenzy and 1 other Feral Talent): When the Beast Tamer enters Frenzy, if his animal companion is within 50 feet, it enters Frenzy as well. The frenzied animal attacks the same creature as the Beast Tamer, and leaves Frenzy at the same time as the character, without needing to make a save. Empowered Frenzy (Frenzy): If your chakra pool contains 50% or more of your maximum chakra pool you gain +2 Str and +2 Dexterity while in Frenzy. Greater Frenzy (Requires Frenzy and 1 other Feral): The Beast Tamer’s is far more controlled and powerful in his Frenzy. The bonus to Strength score he gains is increased to +6, and he gains a +4 bonus to Will saves made to control the effects of his Frenzy, and against fear effects while Frenzying. Feral Combat: Your grow long fingernails (and sharp teeth) and you gain a natural attack that does 1d6 slashing damage as a claw attack. The Beast Tamer counts as though he was armed when making unarmed "feral combat" attacks. Feral combat attacks are still considered unarmed, and feats and abilities that benefit unarmed attacks, such as the weapon focus (unarmed) feat or the combat martial arts tree also apply normally. Improved Feral Combat (Feral Combat): Your claws and fangs become sharper, your natural attack does 1d8 now. Greater Feral Combat (Feral Combat and Imp Feral Combat): Your claws and fangs are the ultimate weapon; your natural attack grows to 1d10.

### Veterinary Talent Tree

Choose one of the following Talents. A Talent cannot be chosen twice unless specified. Improved Treat Injury: The Beast Tamer may reroll any treat injury check made for an animal. But he must keep the second roll even if it is worse. He may spend an action point afterwards to keep the better of both rolls. Improved Animal Heal: When restoring hit points with a medical kit to an animal the Beast Tamer restores the double amount of hit points to his animal companion. Improved Animal Care: When an animal is subject to long-term care of the Beast Tamer he regains the double amount of hit points and ability points for a full day rest. Undying Friendship (Requires 2 other Veterinary Talents): When a Beast Tamer is healing a companion that is at -1 or less hit points, the user may spend an action point and heal for triple the normal amount his medical kit or medical Ninjutsu would heal for.

### Feral Power

Choose one of the following Feral Powers. A Feral Power cannot be chosen twice unless specified. Animal Aspect (Requires 4 other Feral Powers): At 10th level, the Beast Tamer is able to manifest an aspect of his animal companion. If the character has a companion not on the following list, an ability should be assigned by the GM. All of these abilities can be manifested while frenzied. Ape: The Beast Tamer can always take 10 on Climb checks, and gains a Climb speed equal to his normal speed. Bear: The Beast Tamer can use the Improved Grab ability once per encounter if he hits with two Feral Combat attacks in one round. Boar: When the Beast Tamer's hit points reach below 0 (–1 to –9), he is still able to move as though disabled instead of being unconscious, making either an attack or move action every round until he reaches –10 hit points and die, or his hit points return to 1 or higher. Cheetah: Once per hour, the Beast Tamer is able to move at 10 times his speed when Charging. Dog: The Beast Tamer gains the Scent exceptional ability, and a +4 bonus to Survival checks made when tracking. Hawk: The character gains the low-light vision ability and a +8 bonus to Spot check in daylight. Hyena: The Beast Tamer gains the Scent exceptional ability, and a +4 bonus to Hide checks when hiding in tall grass or heavy undergrowth. Owl: The Beast Tamer gains the low-light vision ability and a +4 bonus to Listen and Move Silently checks. Snake: The Beast Tamer can use the Improved Grab ability once per encounter if he hits with a Feral Combat attacks. Tiger: Once per encounter, the Beast Tamer may make full-attack action during a charge. Wolf: The Beast Tamer gains the Scent exceptional ability, and a +4 bonus to Survival checks made when tracking. If the Beast Tamer has more than one animal companion, the animal aspect can be changed once per day. It requires the Beast Tamer to meditate for 1 minute. Endurance: You can use this ability only once per day and once per encounter. When you spend one action point you may regain half your level d6, in hp and chakra. Special: This power can be taken multiple times. You gain additional uses per day, but it does not increase the times per encounter you can use it. Feral Action Point Recovery (Requires Frenzy): When you spend an action point during Frenzy or to enter it, you regain it at the end of the encounter. Special: This power can be taken multiple times its effect stack. Feral Combat Mastery: Choose a single Taijutsu martial arts technique, that could be used in combination with feral combat. The Beast Tamer may take 10 on the Taijutsu and conversion check even when threatened or distracted. Special: You can select this power multiple times, every time you select it, it applies to a different Taijutsu technique. He can use this technique during Frenzy and does NOT suffer from the level requirement. (So, a 10th level character can still use rank 10 Taijutsu techniques instead of rank 5 only.) Feral Combat Prowess (Requires Feral Combat): When using the feral combat style his damage increases by one size category (1d4 becomes 1d6, 1d6 becomes 1d8 etc.). Special: You may select this power multiple times, its effects stack. Critical Feral Combat (Requires Feral Combat): The claws and fangs of the Beast Tamer have a critical threat range of 19-20. Special: This power stacks with Improved Critical. Improved Frenzy (Requires Frenzy): When in Frenzy the Beast Tamer can still use dexterity based skills and chakra control, but only if he is trained in them.
